hi i'm sophie from leave to give food
and today i'm going to show you how to
make pulled pork
pulled pork is a u.s trend that we brits
absolutely love
there are so many barbecue restaurants
nowadays which specialize in pulled pork
but you can also make a great pulled
pork at home
so firstly the best cut of meat for
pulled pork is the pork shoulder
with the skin off but if you've got the
skin on that's not a problem
because you can take it off and then you
can use it for nice crisp crackling
you can use the skin with your pulled
pork itself because it would add a nice
texture when you're eating the pulled
pork
or you can keep the pork crackling torn
into shards in an airtight container and
then you've got your own homemade pork
scratches
now that i've taken the skin off i'm
just going to loosely tie it with some
butcher's string
i'm only doing this because i had to
take the skin off the joint if you buy a
skinless joint you won't have to do it
and don't worry you don't have to be a
butcher or an expert to do this you just
need to loosely tie it so that it holds
in the oven
now that i've loosely tied my pork
shoulder joint back together i'm going
to make the marinade
i'm using some oil some smoked paprika
mustard powder
garlic salt onion salt black pepper and
some liquid smoke
so this is what i'm using in my marinade
but you can kind of choose and play
around with whatever you like
so in order to try and mimic a little
bit of that barbecue effect
i'm going to fry my pork shoulder before
putting the marinade on just to get a
really nice
dark exterior so to do this i'm just
going to coat
my pork in two tablespoons of oil left
over from the marinade
that looks good to me so now i can start
frying
now the whole point of this is exactly
like steak you want to get a really nice
dark brown exterior
now that's ready so the next thing to do
is just brush the marinade all over
i'm just going to place my pork on top
of the rack and then
i'm going to pour in a cup of water
next you just need to cover the roasting
tin in a tight layer of tin foil
that's ready so now all i have to do is
pop it in the oven
so that's my pork in i'm going to cook
it 150 degrees 130 fan for 5 hours
you can cook the pork shoulder from
anywhere between 140 degrees for 160
depending on how much time you have so
now all that's left to do is shred the
pork
don't discard of all these beautiful
juices because we're going to use them
in the sauce because this at the bottom
of the pan is where all the best flavor
flavors
so first i'm just going to remove the
string that i tied earlier
now it's simply a case of using two
forks to shred the meat
look how easy that is absolutely
delicious
so whilst i'm just going through the
pork i'm getting rid of any really big
discernible bits of fat
now obviously fat equals flavor but you
don't really want a really fatty piece
to eat so
just removing a little bit of the fat is
just nicer
there you go all the meat's really
nicely and pulled now so now we're just
going to make up the bbq sauce
so as i said earlier we're just going to
save some of these juices because
they're really delicious
that's a good amount so i'm just going
to add that to my bbq sauce
that's all mixed and now for the fun
part coating the pulled pork in the
delicious sauce
you could do this in a bowl but really
just get stuck in
and that's it really it looks absolutely
delicious coated in this lovely sauce
and you can serve it any way you like so
i'm just going to show you three really
quick
ways how you can use the pulled pork
meat so the first and the most classic
is in a burger
i'm just going to grab a handful of the
pulled pork
top with a bit of nice tangy coleslaw
and a few gherkins just for some
sharpness
and there you have a really good pulled
pork burger
now the second way is with a tortilla so
i'm just gonna spread some sour cream on
the bottom
and then on top of the sour cream again
a nice line of pulled pork
and then a bit of crunchy baby gem
lettuce
finally got some taco shells i'm just
going to fill them with some pulled pork
and then on top of that i'm just going
to put some nice avocado a bit of chili
and some red onion
if you want to be extra fluffy here i'd
definitely add some cheese
now that's all that's needed is a bit of
extra barbecue sauce
and there you have it bbc good foods
pulled pork
uh